Beware Richard Flanagans novel, The Narrow Road to the Deep North. His story about a group of Australian POWs during World War II will cast a shadow over your summer and draw you away from friends and family into dark contemplation the way only the most extraordinary books can. Nothing since Cormac McCarthys The Road has shaken me like this  all the more so because its based on recorded history, rather than apocalyptic speculation. A finalist for this years Man Booker Prize, The Narrow Road to the Deeper North portrays a singular episode of manic brutality: imperial Japans construction of the Thailand-Burma Death Railway in the early 1940s. The British had long investigated this route, but they deemed the jungle impenetrable. Once the Japanese captured Burma, though, its army needed a more efficient resupply route, and so the impossible became possible in just over a year by using some 300,000 people as disposable labor. Flanagans late father was a survivor of that atrocity, which took the lives of more than 12,000 Allied prisoners. I had known for a long time that this was the book I had to write if I was to keep on writing, Flanagan said recently. Other novels came and went as I continued to fail to write this one. Those other novels that he refers to so modestly include his 2001 masterpiece, Goulds Book of Fish, which also dealt with the unfathomable abuse of prisoners. But the horrors of that story about a 19th-century convict kept in a partially submerged cage in Tasmania were leavened by ribald humor and a style so lush that the sentences seemed to send tendrils off the pages, which were printed in several different colors. The Narrow Road to the Deep North sports none of that dazzling showmanship. Its magic is darker and more subtle, its impact more devastating. Here, Flanagan is writing about events that outstrip surrealism. His quiet, unrelenting style is often unbearably powerful. Not just an enlivened historical documentary or a corrective to Pierre Boulles The Bridge over the River Kwai, this is a classic work of war fiction from a world-class writer.The story casts its roving eye on 77-year-old Dr. Dorrigo Evans, a celebrated war hero whose life has been an unsatisfying string of sterile affairs and public honors. He loved a woman once, but tragedy intervened, and since then each new award and commendation only makes Dorrigo feel undeserving and fraudulent. The more he was accused of virtue as he grew older, the more he hated it, Flanagan writes. Virtue was vanity dressed up and waiting for applause. Asked to write the introduction to a collection of once-contraband sketches by one of the servicemen imprisoned with him in Siam, he begins to recall the experiences of that hellacious period. Flanagan has always bent time to his art in the most captivating ways. His first novel, Death of a River Guide, played out the history of Tasmania in the few minutes it takes a man to drown. The Narrow Road to the Deep North has a more complex, impressionistic structure as it moves fluidly forward and backward, changing perspectives and locales, keeping us mesmerized but never confused. For many pages, the novel shimmers over the decades of Dorrigos life, only flashing on the horrors of war and the ghosts who haunt him. But soon enough, that unspeakable period comes into focus in a series of blistering episodes you will never get out of your mind. As more senior captured officers succumb to disease, Dorrigo finds himself placed in command of 700 sickly prisoners who he held, nursed, cajoled, begged, hoodwinked and organised into surviving, whose needs he always put before his own. (This character bears some resemblance to the Australian war hero Col. Edward Weary Dunlop.) The hospital tent, equipped only with rags and saws, is a theater of magical thinking and unfathomable gore. During one operation scene, I confess that I forced my eyes down the page in a blur. What stretches the story beyond the visceral pain it brings to life is the attention paid to these men as individuals, their pettiness and their courage, their acts of betrayal and affection, and their efforts to cling to trappings of civilization no matter how slight or futile. The greatest burden and the one most affectingly portrayed is Dorrigos moral conundrum: Every morning he begins bargaining with his Japanese captors, who insist that dying for the emperor is an honor sufficient to raise his men from the shame of being captured. Dorrigo must select the healthiest prisoners for that days crushing labor. But his men  like a muddy bundle of broken sticks  are starving, suffering from cholera, and, in the never-ending rain, their ulcer-covered bodies are rotting away. The ceaseless torture described here is strikingly uncreative: no water boarding, no electrodes, nothing from the Dick Cheney Handbook for Liberators. Instead, the prisoners are simply kicked to death or beaten with bamboo poles to bloody mush. Dorrigo must strive to save each one, knowing that, ultimately, he cant rescue any of them and that their deaths here in the jungle in service to an insane ambition mean nothing and will quickly be forgotten. Among the novels most daring strategies is its periodic shift to the Japanese and Korean guards points of view  both during and long after the war. Flanagan pulls us right into the minds of these men raised on emperor worship, trained in a system of ritualized brutality and wholly invested in the necessity of their cause. Its a harrowing portrayal of the force of culture and the way twisted political logic inflated by religious zeal can render obscene atrocities routine, even necessary. The novel doesnt exonerate these war criminals, but it forces us to admit that history conspired to place them in a situation where cruelty would thrive, where the natural responses of human kindness and sympathy were short-circuited. And in its final move, the story makes us confront the conundrum of evil men who later become kind and gentle under the cleansing shower of their own denial. How infinite are our ways of absolving ourselves, of rendering our crimes irrelevant, of mitigating the magnitude of others pain. Ultimately, though, the tale belongs to Dorrigo, whose heroism is never sufficient to satisfy his own ideals. His ordeal as part of a Pharaonic slave system that had at its apex a divine sun king seems the kind of psychic injury that never heals, but Flanagan insists that the real source of the doctors chronic despair is the loss of his one true love. Thats a mystery spun here in prose as haunting and evocative as the haiku by 17th-century Japanese poet Basho that gives this novel its title. No other author draws us into the strange, terrible neverendingness of human beings the way Flanagan does. Beware Richard Flanagans new novel, The Narrow Road to the Deep North. His story about a group of Australian POWs during World War II will cast a shadow over your summer and draw you away from friends and family into dark contemplation the way only the most extraordinary books can. Nothing since Cormac McCarthys The Road has shaken me like this  all the more so because its based on recorded history, rather than apocalyptic speculation. A finalist for this years Man Booker Prize, The Narrow Road to the Deeper North portrays a singular episode of manic brutality: imperial Japans construction of the Thailand-Burma Death Railway in the early 1940s. The British had long investigated this route, but they deemed the jungle impenetrable. Once the Japanese captured Burma, though, its army needed a more efficient resupply route, and so the impossible became possible in just over a year by using some 300,000 people as disposable labor. Flanagans late father was a survivor of that atrocity, which took the lives of more than 12,000 Allied prisoners. I had known for a long time that this was the book I had to write if I was to keep on writing, Flanagan said recently. Other novels came and went as I continued to fail to write this one. Those other novels that he refers to so modestly include his 2001 masterpiece, Goulds Book of Fish, which also dealt with the unfathomable abuse of prisoners. But the horrors of that story about a 19th-century convict kept in a partially submerged cage in Tasmania were leavened by ribald humor and a style so lush that the sentences seemed to send tendrils off the pages, which were printed in several different colors. The Narrow Road to the Deep North sports none of that dazzling showmanship. Its magic is darker and more subtle, its impact more devastating. Here, Flanagan is writing about events that outstrip surrealism. His quiet, unrelenting style is often unbearably powerful. Not just an enlivened historical documentary or a corrective to Pierre Boulles The Bridge over the River Kwai, this is a classic work of war fiction from a world-class writer. The story casts its roving eye on 77-year-old Dr. Dorrigo Evans, a celebrated war hero whose life has been an unsatisfying string of sterile affairs and public honors. He loved a woman once, but tragedy intervened, and since then each new award and commendation only makes Dorrigo feel undeserving and fraudulent. The more he was accused of virtue as he grew older, the more he hated it, Flanagan writes. Virtue was vanity dressed up and waiting for applause. Asked to write the introduction to a collection of once-contraband sketches by one of the servicemen imprisoned with him in Siam, he begins to recall the experiences of that hellacious period. Flanagan has always bent time to his art in the most captivating ways. His first novel, Death of a River Guide, played out the history of Tasmania in the few minutes it takes a man to drown. The Narrow Road to the Deep North has a more complex, impressionistic structure as it moves fluidly forward and backward, changing perspectives and locales, keeping us mesmerized but never confused. For many pages, the novel shimmers over the decades of Dorrigos life, only flashing on the horrors of war and the ghosts who haunt him. But soon enough, that unspeakable period comes into focus in a series of blistering episodes you will never get out of your mind. As more senior captured officers succumb to disease, Dorrigo finds himself placed in command of 700 sickly prisoners who he held, nursed, cajoled, begged, hoodwinked and organised into surviving, whose needs he always put before his own. (This character bears some resemblance to the Australian war hero Col. Edward Weary Dunlop.) The hospital tent, equipped only with rags and saws, is a theater of magical thinking and unfathomable gore. During one operation scene, I confess that I forced my eyes down the page in a blur. What stretches the story beyond the visceral pain it brings to life is the attention paid to these men as individuals, their pettiness and their courage, their acts of betrayal and affection, and their efforts to cling to trappings of civilization no matter how slight or futile. The greatest burden and the one most affectingly portrayed is Dorrigos moral conundrum: Every morning he begins bargaining with his Japanese captors, who insist that dying for the emperor is an honor sufficient to raise his men from the shame of being captured. Dorrigo must select the healthiest prisoners for that days crushing labor. But his men  like a muddy bundle of broken sticks  are starving, suffering from cholera, and, in the never-ending rain, their ulcer-covered bodies are rotting away. The ceaseless torture described here is strikingly uncreative: no water boarding, no electrodes, nothing from the Dick Cheney Handbook for Liberators. Instead, the prisoners are simply kicked to death or beaten with bamboo poles to bloody mush. Dorrigo must strive to save each one, knowing that, ultimately, he cant rescue any of them and that their deaths here in the jungle in service to an insane ambition mean nothing and will quickly be forgotten. Among the novels most daring strategies is its periodic shift to the Japanese and Korean guards points of view  both during and long after the war. Flanagan pulls us right into the minds of these men raised on emperor worship, trained in a system of ritualized brutality and wholly invested in the necessity of their cause. Its a harrowing portrayal of the force of culture and the way twisted political logic inflated by religious zeal can render obscene atrocities routine, even necessary. The novel doesnt exonerate these war criminals, but it forces us to admit that history conspired to place them in a situation where cruelty would thrive, where the natural responses of human kindness and sympathy were short-circuited. And in its final move, the story makes us confront the conundrum of evil men who later become kind and gentle under the cleansing shower of their own denial. How infinite are our ways of absolving ourselves, of rendering our crimes irrelevant, of mitigating the magnitude of others pain. Ultimately, though, the tale belongs to Dorrigo, whose heroism is never sufficient to satisfy his own ideals. His ordeal as part of a Pharaonic slave system that had at its apex a divine sun king seems the kind of psychic injury that never heals, but Flanagan insists that the real source of the doctors chronic despair is the loss of his one true love. Thats a mystery spun here in prose as haunting and evocative as the haiku by 17th-century Japanese poet Basho that gives this novel its title. No other author draws us into the strange, terrible neverendingness of human beings the way Flanagan does. Beware Richard Flanagans new novel, The Narrow Road to the Deep North. His story about a group of Australian POWs during World War II will cast a shadow over your summer and draw you away from friends and family into dark contemplation the way only the most extraordinary books can. Nothing since Cormac McCarthys The Road has shaken me like this  all the more so because its based on recorded history, rather than apocalyptic speculation. A finalist for this years Man Booker Prize, The Narrow Road to the Deeper North portrays a singular episode of manic brutality: imperial Japans construction of the Thailand-Burma Death Railway in the early 1940s. The British had long investigated this route, but they deemed the jungle impenetrable. Once the Japanese captured Burma, though, its army needed a more efficient resupply route, and so the impossible became possible in just over a year by using some 300,000 people as disposable labor. Flanagans late father was a survivor of that atrocity, which took the lives of more than 12,000 Allied prisoners. I had known for a long time that this was the book I had to write if I was to keep on writing, Flanagan said recently. Other novels came and went as I continued to fail to write this one. Those other novels that he refers to so modestly include his 2001 masterpiece, Goulds Book of Fish, which also dealt with the unfathomable abuse of prisoners. But the horrors of that story about a 19th-century convict kept in a partially submerged cage in Tasmania were leavened by ribald humor and a style so lush that the sentences seemed to send tendrils off the pages, which were printed in several different colors. The Narrow Road to the Deep North sports none of that dazzling showmanship. Its magic is darker and more subtle, its impact more devastating. Here, Flanagan is writing about events that outstrip surrealism. His quiet, unrelenting style is often unbearably powerful. Not just an enlivened historical documentary or a corrective to Pierre Boulles The Bridge over the River Kwai, this is a classic work of war fiction from a world-class writer. The story casts its roving eye on 77-year-old Dr. Dorrigo Evans, a celebrated war hero whose life has been an unsatisfying string of sterile affairs and public honors. He loved a woman once, but tragedy intervened, and since then each new award and commendation only makes Dorrigo feel undeserving and fraudulent. The more he was accused of virtue as he grew older, the more he hated it, Flanagan writes. Virtue was vanity dressed up and waiting for applause. Asked to write the introduction to a collection of once-contraband sketches by one of the servicemen imprisoned with him in Siam, he begins to recall the experiences of that hellacious period. Flanagan has always bent time to his art in the most captivating ways. His first novel, Death of a River Guide, played out the history of Tasmania in the few minutes it takes a man to drown. The Narrow Road to the Deep North has a more complex, impressionistic structure as it moves fluidly forward and backward, changing perspectives and locales, keeping us mesmerized but never confused. For many pages, the novel shimmers over the decades of Dorrigos life, only flashing on the horrors of war and the ghosts who haunt him. But soon enough, that unspeakable period comes into focus in a series of blistering episodes you will never get out of your mind. As more senior captured officers succumb to disease, Dorrigo finds himself placed in command of 700 sickly prisoners who he held, nursed, cajoled, begged, hoodwinked and organised into surviving, whose needs he always put before his own. (This character bears some resemblance to the Australian war hero Col. Edward Weary Dunlop.) The hospital tent, equipped only with rags and saws, is a theater of magical thinking and unfathomable gore. During one operation scene, I confess that I forced my eyes down the page in a blur. What stretches the story beyond the visceral pain it brings to life is the attention paid to these men as individuals, their pettiness and their courage, their acts of betrayal and affection, and their efforts to cling to trappings of civilization no matter how slight or futile. The greatest burden and the one most affectingly portrayed is Dorrigos moral conundrum: Every morning he begins bargaining with his Japanese captors, who insist that dying for the emperor is an honor sufficient to raise his men from the shame of being captured. Dorrigo must select the healthiest prisoners for that days crushing labor. But his men  like a muddy bundle of broken sticks  are starving, suffering from cholera, and, in the never-ending rain, their ulcer-covered bodies are rotting away. The ceaseless torture described here is strikingly uncreative: no water boarding, no electrodes, nothing from the Dick Cheney Handbook for Liberators. Instead, the prisoners are simply kicked to death or beaten with bamboo poles to bloody mush. Dorrigo must strive to save each one, knowing that, ultimately, he cant rescue any of them and that their deaths here in the jungle in service to an insane ambition mean nothing and will quickly be forgotten. Among the novels most daring strategies is its periodic shift to the Japanese and Korean guards points of view  both during and long after the war. Flanagan pulls us right into the minds of these men raised on emperor worship, trained in a system of ritualized brutality and wholly invested in the necessity of their cause. Its a harrowing portrayal of the force of culture and the way twisted political logic inflated by religious zeal can render obscene atrocities routine, even necessary. The novel doesnt exonerate these war criminals, but it forces us to admit that history conspired to place them in a situation where cruelty would thrive, where the natural responses of human kindness and sympathy were short-circuited. And in its final move, the story makes us confront the conundrum of evil men who later become kind and gentle under the cleansing shower of their own denial. How infinite are our ways of absolving ourselves, of rendering our crimes irrelevant, of mitigating the magnitude of others pain. Ultimately, though, the tale belongs to Dorrigo, whose heroism is never sufficient to satisfy his own ideals. His ordeal as part of a Pharaonic slave system that had at its apex a divine sun king seems the kind of psychic injury that never heals, but Flanagan insists that the real source of the doctors chronic despair is the loss of his one true love. Thats a mystery spun here in prose as haunting and evocative as the haiku by 17th-century Japanese poet Basho that gives this novel its title. No other author draws us into the strange, terrible neverendingness of human beings the way Flanagan does. Beware Richard Flanagans new novel, The Narrow Road to the Deep North. His story about a group of Australian POWs during World War II will cast a shadow over your summer and draw you away from friends and family into dark contemplation the way only the most extraordinary books can. Nothing since Cormac McCarthys The Road has shaken me like this  all the more so because its based on recorded history, rather than apocalyptic speculation. A finalist for this years Man Booker Prize, The Narrow Road to the Deeper North portrays a singular episode of manic brutality: imperial Japans construction of the Thailand-Burma Death Railway in the early 1940s. The British had long investigated this route, but they deemed the jungle impenetrable. Once the Japanese captured Burma, though, its army needed a more efficient resupply route, and so the impossible became possible in just over a year by using some 300,000 people as disposable labor. Flanagans late father was a survivor of that atrocity, which took the lives of more than 12,000 Allied prisoners. I had known for a long time that this was the book I had to write if I was to keep on writing, Flanagan said recently. Other novels came and went as I continued to fail to write this one. Those other novels that he refers to so modestly include his 2001 masterpiece, Goulds Book of Fish, which also dealt with the unfathomable abuse of prisoners. But the horrors of that story about a 19th-century convict kept in a partially submerged cage in Tasmania were leavened by ribald humor and a style so lush that the sentences seemed to send tendrils off the pages, which were printed in several different colors. The Narrow Road to the Deep North sports none of that dazzling showmanship. Its magic is darker and more subtle, its impact more devastating. Here, Flanagan is writing about events that outstrip surrealism. His quiet, unrelenting style is often unbearably powerful. Not just an enlivened historical documentary or a corrective to Pierre Boulles The Bridge over the River Kwai, this is a classic work of war fiction from a world-class writer.


Expected result:
Beware Richard Flanagans novel Narrow Road Deep North story group Australian POWs World War II cast shadow summer draw away friend family dark contemplation way only most extraordinary book Nothing Cormac McCarthys Road have shake more so base recorded history rather apocalyptic speculation finalist year Man Booker Prize Narrow Road Deeper North portray singular episode manic brutality imperial Japans construction Thailand-Burma Death Railway early British have long investigate route deem jungle impenetrable Once Japanese captured Burma though army need more efficient resupply route so impossible become possible just year use people disposable labor Flanagans late father be survivor atrocity take life more Allied prisoner have know long time be book have write be keep writing Flanagan say recently Other novel come go continue fail write one other novel refer so modestly include masterpiece Goulds Book Fish also deal unfathomable abuse prisoner horror story 19th-century convict keep partially submerge cage Tasmania be leaven ribald humor style so lush sentence seem send tendril page be print several different color Narrow Road Deep North sport none dazzle showmanship magic be dark more subtle impact more devastating Here Flanagan be write event outstrip surrealism quiet unrelenting style be often unbearably powerful Not just enlivened historical documentary corrective Pierre Boulles Bridge River Kwai be classic work war fiction world-class writer.The story cast rove eye 77-year-old Dr. Dorrigo Evans celebrated war hero life have be unsatisfying string sterile affair public honor love woman once tragedy intervene then new award commendation only make Dorrigo feel undeserving fraudulent more be accuse virtue grow old more hat Flanagan write Virtue be vanity dress up wait applause Asked write introduction collection once-contraband sketch serviceman imprison Siam begin recall experience hellacious period Flanagan have always bent time art most captivating way first novel Death River Guide play out history Tasmania few minute take man drown Narrow Road Deep North have more complex impressionistic structure move fluidly forward backward change perspective locale keep mesmerize never confuse many page novel shimmer decade Dorrigos life only flash horror war ghost haunt soon enough unspeakable period come focus series blister episode never get mind more senior captured officer succumb disease Dorrigo find place command sickly prisoner hold nurse cajole beg hoodwink organise survive need always put own character bear resemblance Australian war hero Col. Edward Weary Dunlop hospital tent equip only rag saw be theater magical thinking unfathomable gore operation scene confess force eye down page blur stretch story visceral pain bring life be attention pay men individual pettiness courage act betrayal affection effort cling trapping civilization matter slight futile great burden most affectingly portray be Dorrigos moral conundrum morning begin bargain Japanese captor insist die emperor be honor sufficient raise men shame be capture Dorrigo select healthy prisoner day crush labor men muddy bundle broken stick be starve suffer cholera never-ending rain ulcer-covered body be rot away ceaseless torture describe here be strikingly uncreative water boarding electrode nothing Dick Cheney Handbook Liberators Instead prisoner be simply kick death beat bamboo pole bloody mush Dorrigo strive save know ultimately cant rescue death here jungle service insane ambition mean nothing quickly be forget novel most daring strategy be periodic shift Japanese Korean guard point view long war Flanagan pull right mind men raise emperor worship train system ritualized brutality wholly invest necessity cause harrowing portrayal force culture way twisted political logic inflate religious zeal render obscene atrocity routine even necessary novel doesnt exonerate war criminal force admit history conspire place situation cruelty thrive natural response human kindness sympathy be short-circuited final move story make confront conundrum evil men later become kind gentle cleanse shower own denial infinite be way absolve render crime irrelevant mitigate magnitude others pain Ultimately tale belongs Dorrigo heroism be never sufficient satisfy own ideal ordeal part Pharaonic slave system have apex divine sun king seem kind psychic injury never heals Flanagan insist real source doctor chronic despair be loss true love Thats mystery spun here prose haunting evocative haiku 17th-century Japanese poet Basho give novel title other author draw strange terrible neverendingness human being way Flanagan do Beware Richard Flanagans new novel Narrow Road Deep North story group Australian POWs World War II cast shadow summer draw away friend family dark contemplation way only most extraordinary book Nothing Cormac McCarthys Road have shake more so base recorded history rather apocalyptic speculation finalist year Man Booker Prize Narrow Road Deeper North portray singular episode manic brutality imperial Japans construction Thailand-Burma Death Railway early British have long investigate route deem jungle impenetrable Once Japanese captured Burma though army need more efficient resupply route so impossible become possible just year use people disposable labor Flanagans late father be survivor atrocity take life more Allied prisoner have know long time be book have write be keep writing Flanagan say recently Other novel come go continue fail write one other novel refer so modestly include masterpiece Goulds Book Fish also deal unfathomable abuse prisoner horror story 19th-century convict keep partially submerge cage Tasmania be leaven ribald humor style so lush sentence seem send tendril page be print several different color Narrow Road Deep North sport none dazzle showmanship magic be dark more subtle impact more devastating Here Flanagan be write event outstrip surrealism quiet unrelenting style be often unbearably powerful Not just enlivened historical documentary corrective Pierre Boulles Bridge River Kwai be classic work war fiction world-class writer story cast rove eye 77-year-old Dr. Dorrigo Evans celebrated war hero life have be unsatisfying string sterile affair public honor love woman once tragedy intervene then new award commendation only make Dorrigo feel undeserving fraudulent more be accuse virtue grow old more hat Flanagan write Virtue be vanity dress up wait applause Asked write introduction collection once-contraband sketch serviceman imprison Siam begin recall experience hellacious period Flanagan have always bent time art most captivating way first novel Death River Guide play out history Tasmania few minute take man drown Narrow Road Deep North have more complex impressionistic structure move fluidly forward backward change perspective locale keep mesmerize never confuse many page novel shimmer decade Dorrigos life only flash horror war ghost haunt soon enough unspeakable period come focus series blister episode never get mind more senior captured officer succumb disease Dorrigo find place command sickly prisoner hold nurse cajole beg hoodwink organise survive need always put own character bear resemblance Australian war hero Col. Edward Weary Dunlop hospital tent equip only rag saw be theater magical thinking unfathomable gore operation scene confess force eye down page blur stretch story visceral pain bring life be attention pay men individual pettiness courage act betrayal affection effort cling trapping civilization matter slight futile great burden most affectingly portray be Dorrigos moral conundrum morning begin bargain Japanese captor insist die emperor be honor sufficient raise men shame be capture Dorrigo select healthy prisoner day crush labor men muddy bundle broken stick be starve suffer cholera never-ending rain ulcer-covered body be rot away ceaseless torture describe here be strikingly uncreative water boarding electrode nothing Dick Cheney Handbook Liberators Instead prisoner be simply kick death beat bamboo pole bloody mush Dorrigo strive save know ultimately cant rescue death here jungle service insane ambition mean nothing quickly be forget novel most daring strategy be periodic shift Japanese Korean guard point view long war Flanagan pull right mind men raise emperor worship train system ritualized brutality wholly invest necessity cause harrowing portrayal force culture way twisted political logic inflate religious zeal render obscene atrocity routine even necessary novel doesnt exonerate war criminal force admit history conspire place situation cruelty thrive natural response human kindness sympathy be short-circuited final move story make confront conundrum evil men later become kind gentle cleanse shower own denial infinite be way absolve render crime irrelevant mitigate magnitude others pain Ultimately tale belongs Dorrigo heroism be never sufficient satisfy own ideal ordeal part Pharaonic slave system have apex divine sun king seem kind psychic injury never heals Flanagan insist real source doctor chronic despair be loss true love Thats mystery spun here prose haunting evocative haiku 17th-century Japanese poet Basho give novel title other author draw strange terrible neverendingness human being way Flanagan do Beware Richard Flanagans new novel Narrow Road Deep North story group Australian POWs World War II cast shadow summer draw away friend family dark contemplation way only most extraordinary book Nothing Cormac McCarthys Road have shake more so base recorded history rather apocalyptic speculation finalist year Man Booker Prize Narrow Road Deeper North portray singular episode manic brutality imperial Japans construction Thailand-Burma Death Railway early British have long investigate route deem jungle impenetrable Once Japanese captured Burma though army need more efficient resupply route so impossible become possible just year use people disposable labor Flanagans late father be survivor atrocity take life more Allied prisoner have know long time be book have write be keep writing Flanagan say recently Other novel come go continue fail write one other novel refer so modestly include masterpiece Goulds Book Fish also deal unfathomable abuse prisoner horror story 19th-century convict keep partially submerge cage Tasmania be leaven ribald humor style so lush sentence seem send tendril page be print several different color Narrow Road Deep North sport none dazzle showmanship magic be dark more subtle impact more devastating Here Flanagan be write event outstrip surrealism quiet unrelenting style be often unbearably powerful Not just enlivened historical documentary corrective Pierre Boulles Bridge River Kwai be classic work war fiction world-class writer story cast rove eye 77-year-old Dr. Dorrigo Evans celebrated war hero life have be unsatisfying string sterile affair public honor love woman once tragedy intervene then new award commendation only make Dorrigo feel undeserving fraudulent more be accuse virtue grow old more hat Flanagan write Virtue be vanity dress up wait applause Asked write introduction collection once-contraband sketch serviceman imprison Siam begin recall experience hellacious period Flanagan have always bent time art most captivating way first novel Death River Guide play out history Tasmania few minute take man drown Narrow Road Deep North have more complex impressionistic structure move fluidly forward backward change perspective locale keep mesmerize never confuse many page novel shimmer decade Dorrigos life only flash horror war ghost haunt soon enough unspeakable period come focus series blister episode never get mind more senior captured officer succumb disease Dorrigo find place command sickly prisoner hold nurse cajole beg hoodwink organise survive need always put own character bear resemblance Australian war hero Col. Edward Weary Dunlop hospital tent equip only rag saw be theater magical thinking unfathomable gore operation scene confess force eye down page blur stretch story visceral pain bring life be attention pay men individual pettiness courage act betrayal affection effort cling trapping civilization matter slight futile great burden most affectingly portray be Dorrigos moral conundrum morning begin bargain Japanese captor insist die emperor be honor sufficient raise men shame be capture Dorrigo select healthy prisoner day crush labor men muddy bundle broken stick be starve suffer cholera never-ending rain ulcer-covered body be rot away ceaseless torture describe here be strikingly uncreative water boarding electrode nothing Dick Cheney Handbook Liberators Instead prisoner be simply kick death beat bamboo pole bloody mush Dorrigo strive save know ultimately cant rescue death here jungle service insane ambition mean nothing quickly be forget novel most daring strategy be periodic shift Japanese Korean guard point view long war Flanagan pull right mind men raise emperor worship train system ritualized brutality wholly invest necessity cause harrowing portrayal force culture way twisted political logic inflate religious zeal render obscene atrocity routine even necessary novel doesnt exonerate war criminal force admit history conspire place situation cruelty thrive natural response human kindness sympathy be short-circuited final move story make confront conundrum evil men later become kind gentle cleanse shower own denial infinite be way absolve render crime irrelevant mitigate magnitude others pain Ultimately tale belongs Dorrigo heroism be never sufficient satisfy own ideal ordeal part Pharaonic slave system have apex divine sun king seem kind psychic injury never heals Flanagan insist real source doctor chronic despair be loss true love Thats mystery spun here prose haunting evocative haiku 17th-century Japanese poet Basho give novel title other author draw strange terrible neverendingness human being way Flanagan do Beware Richard Flanagans new novel Narrow Road Deep North story group Australian POWs World War II cast shadow summer draw away friend family dark contemplation way only most extraordinary book Nothing Cormac McCarthys Road have shake more so base recorded history rather apocalyptic speculation finalist year Man Booker Prize Narrow Road Deeper North portray singular episode manic brutality imperial Japans construction Thailand-Burma Death Railway early British have long investigate route deem jungle impenetrable Once Japanese captured Burma though army need more efficient resupply route so impossible become possible just year use people disposable labor Flanagans late father be survivor atrocity take life more Allied prisoner have know long time be book have write be keep writing Flanagan say recently Other novel come go continue fail write one other novel refer so modestly include masterpiece Goulds Book Fish also deal unfathomable abuse prisoner horror story 19th-century convict keep partially submerge cage Tasmania be leaven ribald humor style so lush sentence seem send tendril page be print several different color Narrow Road Deep North sport none dazzle showmanship magic be dark more subtle impact more devastating Here Flanagan be write event outstrip surrealism quiet unrelenting style be often unbearably powerful Not just enlivened historical documentary corrective Pierre Boulles Bridge River Kwai be classic work war fiction world-class writer